STORIES THIS EVENING, FIRST, A
MALAYSIA AIRLINES FLIGHT WITH
295 PEOPLE ON BOARD CRASHED IN
UKRAINE NEAR THE RUSSIAN BORDER.
WITH SOME EVIDENCE SUGGESTING IT
WAS SHOT DOWN.
>> Woodruff: THEN, ISRAEL'S
MILITARY ANNOUNCED IT HAS
LAUNCHED GROUND OPERATIONS IN
THE GAZA STRIP.
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN
IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE HAVE THOSE STORIES AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE FIGHTING IN
EASTERN UKRAINE TOOK A DEADLY
NEW TURN TODAY.
A MALAYSIAN AIRLINES PLANE
FLYING OVER THE REGION APPEARED
TO HAVE BEEN SHOT DOWN WITH ALL
295 PASSENGERS AND CREW BOARD
FEARED DEAD.
A UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL SAID THEY
INCLUDED 23 AMERICANS.
THE CIRCUMSTANCES REMAINED
MURKY, BUT SMOKE RISING INTO THE
EASTERN UKRAINIAN SKY LEFT
LITTLE DOUBT OF THE EXTENT OF
THE TRAGEDY.
THE BURNING REMAINS OF MALAYSIAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT MH-17 LAY
SCATTERED OVER A WIDE AREA.
IT APPEARED THE BOEING 777 HAD
BROKEN UP BEFORE IMPACT.
THE PLANE, SEEN HERE, IN RECENT
YEARS, HAD BEEN FLYING AT 33,000
THOUSAND FEET, EN ROUTE FROM
AMSTERDAM TO KUALA LUMPUR, WHEN
IT DISAPPEARED.
THE CRAIT
FROM THE RUSSIAN BORDER, IN
UKRAINE'S DONETSK REGION, NOW
HELD BY THE REBELS.
IT DIDN'T TAKE LONG FOR THE
ACCUSATIONS TO BEGIN.
IN A FACEBOOK POST, A UKRAINIAN
INTERIOR MINISTRY OFFICIAL
DECLARED THE AIRLINER WAS SHOT
DOWN BY REBELS USING A RUSSIAN-
MADE SA-17 SYSTEM.
ITS MISSILES CAN REACH ALTITUDES
OF 72,000 FEET.
JUST AS QUICKLY, THE SELF-
PROCLAIMED REBEL PRIME MINISTER
OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
DONETSK DENIED INVOLVEMENT.
>> ( translated ): A PASSENGER
AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN SHOT DOWN
INDEED, SHOT DOWN BY UKRAINIAN
AIR FORCES.
TO TELL THE TRUTH THIS IS A
PROVOCATION ON PURPOSE.
IN PRINCIPLE THIS IS NOT THE
FIRST TIME FOR UKRAINE TO SHOOT
DOWN PASSENGER AIRCRAFTS, AS YOU
KNOW.
>> Ifill: BUT UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT PETRO POROSHENKO SAID
HIS MILITARY HAS NOT FIRED ON
ANY AIRBORNE TARGETS, AND HE
CALLED FOR AN INTERNATIONAL
INVESTIGATION.
>> ( translated ): I JUST
FINISHED A CONVERSATION WITH THE
PRIME MINISTER OF THE
NETHERLANDS.
I OFFERED OUR CONDOLENCES ON
BEHALF OF THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE
AND INVITED DUTCH EXPERTS TO
OPEN AN INVESTIGATION OF THIS
ACT OF TERRORISM.
>> Ifill: WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS
SAID PRESIDENT OBAMA LEARNED OF
THE CRASH  R
VLADIMIR PUTIN DURING A PHONE
CALL ON U.S. SANCTIONS AGAINST
MOSCOW.
LATER, IN DELAWARE, THE
PRESIDENT CALLED THE EVENT A
TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
>> THE UNITED STATES WILL OFFER
ANY ASSISTANCE WE CAN TO HELP
DETERMINE WHAT HAPPENED AND WHY,
AND AS A COUNTRY OUR THOUGHTS
AND PRAYERS ARE WITH ALL THE
FAMILIES OF THE PASSENGERS
WHEREVER THEY CALL HOME.
>> Ifill: FOR MALAYS
AIRLINES, IT'S THE SECOND MAJOR
CATASTROPHE IN SIX MONTHS.
LAST MARCH, FLIGHT 370
DISAPPEARED WHILE FLYING FROM
KUALA LUMPUR TO BEIJING.
A SEARCH OF THE INDIAN OCEAN OFF
AUSTRALIA HAS YET TO YIELD ANY
SIGN OF THAT PLANE.
LATER TODAY, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
PUTIN LAID THE BLAME ON THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT FOR
RENEWING MILITARY OPERATIONS
AGAINST THE REBELS.
WE LOOK AT SOME OF THE MANY
QUESTIONS SURROUNDING THIS WITH
CHARLES DUELFER, WHO SPENT MORE
THAN 25 YEARS WORKING FOR
GOVERNMENT NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCIES.
IN 1983 HE WAS THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S TOP ANALYST
INVESTIGATING THE SHOOTDOWN OF A
SOUTH KOREAN AIRLINER BY THE
SOVIETS.
AND JIM HALL, THE FORMER CHAIR
OF THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD.
THE BOARD INVESTIGATED THE
CRASHES OF T.W.A. FLIGHT 800 AND
EGYPT AIR 990 WHILE HE WAS
CHAIRMAN.
FLYING WITHIN WHAT WOULD IT
TAKE TO SHOOT DOWN A
COMMERCIAL AIRLINE AT 33
THOUGH, FUTURE.
>> THERE IS A LOT OF
CAPACITY TO DO THAT.
THE RUSSIANS HAVE MISSILE
SYSTEMS TO TO DO JUST THIS
AN APPARENTLY THESE MISSILE
SYSTEMS HAVE COME INTO THE
HANDS OF UKRAINE AND
UKRAINIAN SEPARATISTS.
IT'S NOT A DIFFICULT TASK
FOR A SOPHISTED ARMY.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE TO CONFUSE
A COMMERCIAL AIRLINERER WITH
A MILITARY TRANSPORT PLANE.
>> IN FACT IN IS PROBABLY
WHAT HAPPENED IN 1938 WHEN
THE RUSSIANS SHOT DOWN A
747.
THEY WERE SUSPICIOUS THAT IT
WAS AN AMERICAN SURVEILLANCE
AIRCRAFT.
MY GUESS --
>> THIS WAS THE KOREAN
AIRLINE.
>> THE KOREAN AIRLINER IN
1983.
IF YOU TAKE ONE OF THESE
MILITARY SYSTEMS AND YOU
TAKE IT OUT OF AN OVERALL
AIR DEFENSE SYSTEM, WHERE
YOU HAVE JUST GOT A SMALL
UNIT AN THEY'RE LOOKING THE
AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE OF ANY
OTHER DATA, THEY COULD LOOK
UP AND MISIDENTIFY AN
AIRCRAFT.
I THINK THAT'S POSSIBLY WHAT
WOULD HAPPEN IN THIS CASE
WHERE THEY MAY HAVE THOUGHT
THEY WERE AIMING AT A
TRANSPORT AIRCRAFT -- AIR
KAFT WHICH WOULD BE
ASSOCIATED WITH THE
UKRAINIAN MILITARY AND IN
FACT BEEN AIMING AT THIS
777.
>> JIM HALL, WE LOOK AT THE
AIRSPACE.
WE FOE ABOUT THE CONFLICT IN
UKRAINE.
HOW SAFE WAS IT FOR THAT
AIRLINER TO BE FLYING
THROUGH THAT AIRSPACE AT
UDE?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW FOR
SURE.
THE INTEGRITY OF THIS
INVESTIGATION WHICH I AGREE
SHOULD BE AN INTERNATIONAL
INVESTIGATION, IS CRITICAL
IN MY OPINION TO ALL OF THE
NATION'S IN THAT REGION.
AND SO THE AIRSPACE AS I
UNDERSTAND IT WAS CLEARED
FOR COMMERCIAL FLIGHT.
SO EITHER WE'RE LOOKING AT A
CRIMINAL AGO AND THE
DASTARDLY AGO THAT TOOK 295
LIVES, OR A HORRIBLE
MISTAKE.
AND THE WORLD NEEDS TO KNOW
THAT OR IT'S GOING TO HAVE,
AS I SAID, A CHILLING AFFECT
ON INTERNATIONAL AVIATION.
>> JIM HALL, YOU'VE
INVESTIGATED UNEXPECTED AND
I GUESS THEY ARE ALL
UNEXPECTED, CRASHES AND
ACCIDENTS BEFORE.
WHAT IS THE FIRST THING YOU
LOOK FOR TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THERE FACT, IT WAS A
TERRIBLE FAILURE OF THE
AIRCRAFT ITSELF OR SOMEONE'S
DECISION TO TAKE IT DOWN?
>> WELL, OF COURSE MOST OF
THAT INFORMATION GOING TO BE
CONTAINED IN THE BLACK BOXES.
HOPEFULLY THEY ARE IN THE
PROCESS OF BEING RECOVERED.
THE FLIGHT-DATA RECORDER,
THE COCKPIT VOICE RECORDER.
YOU ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING
OBVIOUSLY AT THE AIR-TRAFFIC
CONTROL TAPES AND ANY OTHER
TYPE OF INFORMATION THAT YOU
MIGHT HAVE THAT INVOLVES
COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE
GROUND AND THIS AIRCRAFT
CHARLES DUELFER PRESIDENT
PUTIN APPARENTLY INFORMED
PRESIDENT OBAMA ABOUT THIS
IN A PHONE CALL EARLIER IN
THE DAY WHICH WOULD LOAD ONE
TO BELIEVE THAT HE WAS
TRYING TO SAY-- WE HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH THIS OR I
GUESS HE WOULD NOT HAVE
BROUGHT IT UP.
IN THE PAST ESPECIALLY IN
THE KOREAN AIRLINER INCIDENT,
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT
ANYBODY WOULD READILY ADMIT
TO OR DID THIS HAVE TO BE
UNEARTHED IN THE
INVESTIGATION?
>> I THINK THE RUSSIANS
LEARNED FROM THEIR
EXPERIENCE IN 1983, WHERE
THEY HANDLED IT VERY BADLY
BY DENYING IT FOR LONG
PERIOD OF TIME.
AND THEN THEY WERE CALLED
OUT BECAUSE THE UNITED
STATES INTELLIGENCE HAD
COLLECTED THE COMMUNICATIONS
WHICH WAS VERY BLATANT AND
THEY WERE PLAYED IN THE
SECURITY COUNCIL AM I WOULD
ADD TO WHAT JIM HAS SAID,
THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT OF
INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION.
THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST
HEAVILY SURVEILED PLACES ON
THE PLANET WHERE THEY HAVE
SATELLITES WHICH ARE LOOKING
FOR JUST MISSILE LAUNCHES
BECAUSE WE'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT ATTACKS FROM RUSSIA.
SO THERE WILL BE A LOT OF
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
I THINK THE CASE, THIS WILL
BE AN ANSWERABLE THING.
PEOPLE WILL KNOW WHY THIS
AIRPLANE WENT DOWN.
THE OPEN QUESTION WILL BE
WHO HAS RESPONSIBILITY FOR
IT.
AND THAT'S WHAT I THINK
WE'RE GOING TO SEE RUSSIA
MANEUVERING TO TRY TO SHIFT
RESPONSIBILITY AND UKRAINIANS
TRYING TO PLACE
RESPONSIBILITY ON RUSSIA IF
NOT THE SEPARATISTS.
>> JIM HALL, LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT THIS IDEA OF BEING
ABLE TO TRACE THE CAUSE FOR
THE PLANE GOING DOWN.
THIS IS, EVEN THOUGH IT'S
MALAYSIA AIRLINES AND WE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME TALKING
ABOUT THE MALAYSIA AIRLINE
JET THAT WENT MISSING WITHIN
THE LAST SIX MONTHS, WHAT IS
DIFFERENT HERE IN TERMS OF
THE NUMBER OF WAYS TO
MONITOR THIS FLIGHT PATH AND
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN IMPACT
PRESUMABLY OCCURRED?
WELL, OF COURSE THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE IS
THAT WE HAVE THE WRECKAGE,
REGRETTABLY.
WE KNOW WHERE IT'S LOCATED
WHICH DOES SET UP A CERTAIN
INTERNATIONAL PROTOCOLS IN
TERMS OF AN INVESTIGATION
WHICH I'M PLEASED TO HEAR
AND I HOPE BOTH SIDES IN THE
UKRAINIAN DISPUTE WILL AGREE
TO AN INTERNATIONAL
INVESTIGATION OF THIS
MATTER.
BUT HAVING THE EVIDENCE AND
HOPEFULLY HAVING THE
INFORMATION ON THE BLACK
BOXES AND HAVING THE
RECOVERY OF THOSE BLACK
BOXES AND THE COOPERATION OF
THE VARIOUS COUNTRIES THAT
THIS AIRCRAFT FLEW THROUGH
IN PROVIDING THIS
INFORMATION, WILL HAVE A
MORE TRANSPARENT AND A MORE
DETAILED INVESTIGATION INTO
THIS MALAYSIAN ACCIDENT THAN
WE HAVE SEEN TODAY IN THE
PREVIOUS ONE.
>> AND LET ME ASK YOU ONE
MORE QUESTION ABOUT THAT,
THE AIRSPACE WAS NOT CLOSED,
WHERE THIS FLIGHT WAS
MANEUVERING THROUGH.
AT LEAST IT WAS FLYING
BEFORE THE CLOSED PORTION OF
THE AIRSPACE, BUT IT HAS
BEEN CLOSED NOW.
IS IT YOUR UNDERSTANDING NOW
OR WOULD IT BE YOUR ADVICE
IF YOU WERE IN A SIMILAR
POSITION TO KEEP THAT CLOSED
FOR THE LENGTH OF THIS
INVESTIGATION?
>> I THINK THAT'S JUST
COMMON SENSE, AT THIS POINT.
THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY
INDIVIDUALS ON THE GROUND
THAT HAVE WEAPONS CAPABLE OF
REACHING THE ALTITUDE OF 9
MOST SOPHISTICATED AIRCRAFT
FLYING NOW.
SO UNTIL THAT DISPUTE CAN BE
MANAGED WE CERTAINLY NEED TO
EMBARGO THAT AIRSPACE.
>> CHARLES DUELFER, PUT YOUR
DIPLOMAT HAT ON FOR A
MOMENT.
JIM HALL JUST TALKED ABOUT
THE INTERNATIONAL
REVERBERATIONS HERE.
WHAT DO YOU SEE ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THAT THIS WAS A TOUCHY
WAR ZONE IN THE FIRST PLACE,
REVERBERATING FROM THIS KIND
OF ACCIDENT, INTENTIONAL
ATTACK.
>> THERE IS GOING TO BE SOME
SERIOUS ARGUMENTS ABOUT
WHETHER THE RUSSIANS ARE
BEHAVING RESPONSIBLEABLY
WITH RIPP TO THEIR CLIENTS.
PARTICULARLY WITH RESPECT TO
HAVING THEM HAVING SES TO
THESE TYPES OF WEAPONS WHICH
OUTSIDE OF THE COMMAND AND
CONTROL OF AN ORGANIZED
STATE, YOU GET AN AIRLINER
PASSING THROUGH AIRSPACE AND
THEY HAVE NO WAY OF CHECKING,
IS THIS A CIVILIAN AIRCRAFT
OR IS IT A FRIEND OR A FOE.
THAT NORMAL STRUCTURE
DOESN'T EXIST.
SO I THINK A LOT OF THE
DIPLOMATIC ARGUMENT WILL
TAKE PLACE ON THAT POINT.
AND AGAIN, I THINK THE INTEL
AGAINST SURROUNDING THIS
BOTH FROM THE UNITED STATES,
THE UKRAINE, IS GOING TO BE
VERY INTERESTING.
I THINK IF THEY DO HAVE
TAPES OF COMMUNICATIONS,
THOSE ARE GOING TO BE VERY
DAMNING IN A LOT OF WAYS.
>> CHARLES DUELFER, JIM HALL,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
USED HIS PHONE CALL WITH RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN TODAY TO WARN OF
EVEN MORE SANCTIONS.
YESTERDAY, THE U.S. IMPOSED NEW
MEASURES AS PUNISHMENT FOR
MOSCOW'S SUPPORT OF UKRAINIAN
REBELS.
THE SANCTIONS TARGET MAJOR
RUSSIAN BANKS, ENERGY AND
DEFENSE COMPANIES.
PUTIN LASHED OUT AT THE U.S.
EARLIER IN THE DAY, DURA
TRIP TO BRAZIL.
>> ( translated ): SANCTIONS
HAVE A BOOMERANG EFFECT AND
WITHOUT ANY DOUBT THEY WILL PUSH
U.S.-RUSSIAN RELATIONS TO A DEAD
END, AND CAUSE VERY SERIOUS
DAMAGE.
I AM SURE THAT THIS ALSO DAMAGES
NATIONAL LONG-TERM STRATEGIC
INTERESTS OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
AND THE U.S. PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: LAST NIGHT, FOR THE
FIRST TIME, EUROPEAN LEADERS
SIGNALED THEY ARE NOW WILLING TO
TARGET RUSSIAN COMPANIES WITH
THEIR OWN SANCTIONS.
BUT THE NEW TENSIONS UNSETTLED
WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 161 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,976; THE NASDAQ FELL 62
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,363; AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED 23, TO
1,958.
>> Ifill: MICROSOFT ANNOUNCED
PLANS TODAY FOR ITS BIGGEST
LAYOFFS EVER.
THE COMPANY WILL TRIM 18,000
JOBS, 14% OF ITS STAFF, OVER THE
NEXT YEAR.
THE MOVE IS PART OF MICROSOFT'S
STREAMLINING SINCE IT ACQUIRED
NOKIA'S CELLPHONE BUSINESS IN
APRIL.
THE SOFTWARE GIANT IS ALSO
SHIFTING FROM TRADITIONAL
PERSONAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE TO
MOBILE AND CLOUD-BASED PRODUCTS.
>> Woodruff: IT TURNS OUT A
SEARCH AT THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH FOUND MORE
THAN 300 UN-RECORDED VIALS OF
HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS VIRUSES AND
BACTERIA.
THE FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATIOG
IT'S USED FOR DECADES AT THE
N.I.H. CAMPUS IN BETHESDA,
MARYLAND.
IT WAS ALREADY KNOWN THAT SIX
VIALS OF DECADES-OLD SMALLPOX
VIRUS TURNED UP AT THE SAME
SITE.
>> Ifill: CONGRESS NOW APPEARS
INCREASINGLY UNLIKELY TO ACT
SOON ON THE SURGE OF MIGRANT
CHILDREN CROSSING THE U.S.
BORDER FROM CENTRAL AMERICA.
REPUBLICANS SAY THEY WON'T
APPROVE THE PRESIDENT'S REQUEST
FOR EMERGENCY FUNDING WITHOUT
ALSO CHANGING A 2008 LAW, IN
ORDER TO SPEED UP DEPORTATIONS.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID
TODAY HE'S NOT OPTIMISTIC.
>> I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU CAN
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM DOWN
THERE WITHOUT LOOKING AT THE
'08 LAW, I DON'T KNOW HOW
CONGRESS CAN SEND MORE MONEY
TO THE BOARD TORE BEGIN TO
MITIGATE THE PROBLEM IF YOU
DON'T DO SOMETHING ABOUT THE
'08 LAW THAT'S BEING
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS OPPOSE
SPEEDING UP THE DEPORTATION
PROCESS.
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER NANCY
PELOSI HAD SUGGESTED LAST WEEK
THAT CHANGING THE LAW MIGHT BE
POSSIBLE.
BUT TODAY, SHE RULED IT OUT, AND
WARNED REPUBLICANS THEY WILL BE
BLAMED IF CONGRESS DOES NOTHING.
>> WHAT THEY HAVE SAID IN
THE PUBLIC STATEMENTS IS
THEY DON'T WANT TO DO ALL
THAT MUCH MONEY, AND THEY
WANT TO HAVE LEGISLATION IN
THERE THAT IS HARMFUL TO
SOME OF THE CHILDREN THAT
WE'RE DEALING WITH AT THE
BORDER.
THAT SOUNDS LIKE AN ALL
REPUBLICAN BILL TO ME.
>> Ifill: TIME IS GETTING SHORT
TO GET ANYTHING DONE THIS
SUMMER.
CONGRESS LEAVES IN TWO WEEKS FOR
ITS MONTH-LONG AUGUST RECESS.
>> Woodruff: AUSTRALIA
BECOME THE FIRST COUNTRY TO
REPEAL A CARBON TAX ON
GREENHOUSE GAS POLLUTERS.
THE AUSTRALIAN SENATE TODAY
VOTED TO AXE THE 2012 LAW THAT
ROUSED HEAVY PUBLIC OPPOSITION.
THE RULING CONSERVATIVE
COALITION GOVERNMENT TOOK POWER
LAST YEAR, PROMISING TO END THE
TAX AND LOWER ELECTRICITY BILLS
AS A RESULT.
>> Ifill: FAMED BROADWAY
PERFORMER ELAINE STRITCH DIED
TODAY, AT HER HOME IN
BIRMINGHAM, MICHIGAN.
SHE HAD A LONG LIST OF STAGE,
MOVIE AND TV CREDITS, AND WON A
TONY AND THREE EMMYS OVER MORE
THAN 60 YEARS.
BUT SHE MAY BE BEST KNOWN FOR
HER SHOW-STOPPING SIGNATURE
NUMBER "THE LADIES WHO LUNCH"
FROM THE 1970 MUSICAL "COMPANY."
SHE PERFORMED IT MORE RECENTLY
IN HER ONE WOMAN SHOW, "AT
LIBERTY."
HERE'S TO THE LADIES WHO
LUNCH
EVERYBODY LAUGHS
LOUNGING IN THEIR
CAFCANS
AND PLANNING A BRUNCH
ON THEIR OWN BEHALF
.
>> Ifill: ELAINE STRITCH WAS 89-
YEARS-OLD.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
ISRAEL SENDS GROUND TROOPS INTO
GAZA.
TOUGH QUESTIONS FOR G.M.'S LEGAL
DEPARTMENT FROM CONGRESS.
WHAT'S DRIVING AN INCREASE OF
H.I.V. INFECTIONS IN UGANDA.
AND A LOOK BACK AT HOW GERALDINE
FERRARO CHANGED THE POLITICAL
GAME FOR WOMEN.
>> Woodruff: THE CONFLICT
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS
ESCALATED TODAY AFTER EFFORTS TO
BROKER A CEASE-FIRE FAILED AND
ISRAELI TROOPS ROLLED INTO GAZA.
THE GROUND ASSAULT BEGAN AFTER
NIGHTFALL, WITH GAZA RESIDENTS
R SHENG
THE BORDER.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU'S OFFICE SAID THE
OPERATION WOULD TARGET WHAT IT
CALLED "TERRORIST TUNNELS" FROM
GAZA INTO ISRAEL.
IT WAS A STARK CHANGE FROM
EARLIER IN THE DAY.
FOR JUST A WHILE, QUIET RETURNED
TO THE STREETS OF GAZA AND
SOUTHERN ISRAEL AFTER TEN DAYS
OF AIR STRIKES AND ROCKET FIRE.
IT WAS A U.N. REQUESTED TRUCE,
AGREED TO BY HAMAS AND THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT, ON
HUMANITARIAN GROUNDS.
THEY ALSO LINED UP IN DROCHS
OUTSIDE BANKS IN ORDER TO
WITHDRAW MONEY FOR THE FIRST
TIME SINCE THE CONFLICT
BEGAN.
IN ISRAEL AS AIR RAID SIRENS
FELL SILENT PEOPLE IN THE
SOUTHERN TOWN ALSO SHOPPED
FOR CLOTHES AND FOOD.
BUT THEN AT 3 P.M. LOCAL
TIME THE FRUS ENDED-- THE
TRUCE ENDED WITH A NEW
BARRAGE OF HAMAS ROCKETS
FIRED INTO ISRAEL.
NO ONE WAS HURT.
THE ISRAELIS STRUCK BACK
WITH NEW AIR STRIKES IN
GAZA.
INCLUDING ONE THAT KILLED
THREE CHILDREN, ACCORDING TO
THE GAZAN HEALTH MINISTRY.
MEANWHILE A JERUSALEM COURT
INDICTED THREE ISRAELIS IN
THE DEATH OF 16-YEAR-OLD
MOHAMMED ABUICDARE, THE
PALESTINIAN BOY WAS BURN ADD
LIVE AFTER THREE ISRAELI
TEENS WERE KILLED LAST MONTH,
DIDN'TS THAT SPARKED THE
CURRENT FIGHTING.
>> THE ISRAELI GROUND
ASSAULT ON GAZ AZ
>> Woodruff: THE ISRAELI GROUND
ASSAULT ON GAZA LATE TODAY
SURPRISED OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN
GOVERNMENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
FURIOUSLY WORKING IN CAIRO TO
NEGOTIATE A PERMANENT CEASE
FIRE.
A CASE IN POINT, THE PALESTINE
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION'S
AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S., MAEN
RASHID AREIKAT.
HE SPOKE THIS AFTERNOON WITH THE
NEWSHOUR'S CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT, MARGARET WARNER,
JUST AN HOUR BEFORE THE
INCURSION WAS ANNOUNCED.
>> Reporter: AMBASSADOR AREIKAT,
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Reporter: WELL AFTER THIS
FIVE-MONTH LULL, IN FACT FIERCE
FIGHTING HAS RESUMED.
MORE ROCKETS, MORE KILLINGS IN
GAZA.
WHAT IS IT GOING TO TAKE TO END
THIS THING?
>> I THINK IT WILL TAKE THE
EFFORTS OF MANY PARTIES.
IT'S NOT ONLY ISRAEL AND
PALESTINIAN FACTIONS WHO ARE
ENGAGED IN INTENSE EFFORTS TO
REACH A CEASE-FIRE.
THE PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT
YESTERDAY ARRIVED IN CAIRO, HAD
TALKS WITH HAMAS OFFICIALS, WITH
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS.
HE'S PLANNING ON GOING TO TURKEY
TOMORROW, TO QATAR.
THERE ARE VERY, VERY INTENSE
EFFORTS RIGHT NOW TO SOMEHOW
BREACH THE GAPS BETWEEN THE TWO
SIDES.
I PERSONALLY BELIEVE THAT IT IS
A MATTER OF TIME BEFORE THEY
REACH A CEASE-FIRE.
>> Reporter: SO YOU MEAN, EVEN
THOUGH WE SEE ALL THIS VIOLENCE
GOING ON THAT THIS SEPARATE
TRACK, THE DIPLOMATIC TRACK,
YOU THINK STILL HOLDS PROMISE?
AS YOU SAID YOUR PRESIDENT IS
INVOLVED IN THIS.
>> YES, I THINK BOTH SIDES HAVE
NO INTEREST IN EXPANDING THIS
CONFRONTATION THE PALESTINIAN
LEADERSHIP POSITION IS VERY
CLEAR WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THIS IS IN THE INTEREST OF ANY
PARTY.
DEFINITELY NOT THE PALESTINIANS
WHO HAVE REALLY SUFFERED A HEAVY
TOLL OF CIVILIAN CASUALTIES,
MORE THAN 240 BEING KILLED SO
FAR, 1,600 WOUNDED, VERY, VERY
EXTENSIVE DAMAGE IN THEAZA
STRIP, SO IT IS IN THE INTEREST
OF THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE TO SEE
A CEASE-FIRE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
>> Reporter: IF THERE IS NO
PERMANENT CEASE-FIRE REACHED,
THERE ARE MANY VOICES IN ISRAEL
CALLING FOR SOME SORT OF GROUND
INVASION.
WHAT WOULD BE THE CONSEQUENCES
OF THAT?
>> I THINK THAT WOULD BE A MAJOR
MISTAKE, BECAUSE ISRAEL TRIED A
GROUND INVASION IN 2008-2009 AND
2012.
NONE OF THAT IS GOING TO SOLVE
THE PROBLEM IN GAZA.
OUR PROBLEM WITH ISRAEL IS A
POLITICAL PROBLEM.
IT'S A PROBLEM ABOUT A CONTINUED
ISRAELI MILITARY OCCUPATION OF
THE WEST BANK, OF THE GAZA
STRIP.
EVEN THOUGH THEY WITHDREW THEIR
SOLDIERS AND CENTERS FROM THE
GAZA, TECHNICALLY GAZA IS STILL
UNDER ISRAELI MILITARY
OCCUPATION.
>> Reporter: YOU MEAN BECAUSE
IT'S CONTROLLED AND...
>> ABSOLUTELY, THEIR AIRSPACE,
TERRITORIAL WATERS, THEIR
LAND CROSSING POINTS, THEY'RE
ALL UNDER ISRAELI CONTROL.
THE SITUATION IN THE WEST BANK
IS A LITTLE BIT, IS BETTER THAN
GAZA STRIP, BUT STILL, THERE IS
A POLITICAL PROBLEM THAT NEEDS
TO BE RESOLVED, ENDING THIS
OCCUPATION, CREATING A
PALESTINIAN STATE THAT CAN LIVE
SIDE BY SIDE IN PEACE AND
SECURITY WITH ISRAEL.
>> Reporter: NOW OF COURSE
PRESIDENT ABBAS CALLED ON S
TO ACCEPT THIS FIRST EGYPTIAN
PROPOSAL BACK ON TUESDAY, WHICH
THEY REJECTED.
IS HAMAS ASKING FOR TOO MUCH
HERE?
>> HAMAS WANTS TO SEE THE
SITUATION IN THE GAZA STRIP
CHANGE, AND I THINK THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT ALL PALESTINIANS
WANT TO SEE.
THE SITUATION IN THE GAZA STRIP,
THE BLOCKADE THAT ISRAEL HAS
IMPOSED ON THE GAZA STRIP FOR
THE LAST FIVE, SIX YEARS, HAS
EXACTED A HEAVY TOLL ON THE
POPULATION THERE.
ECONOMICALLY, THE CONDITIONS ARE
VERY, VERY DIRE IN THE GAZA
STRIP.
>> Reporter: BUT DOES RAINING
ROCKETS DOWN ON ISRAEL
ACCOMPLISH THAT?
>> OUR POSITION IS CLEAR WHEN IT
COMES TO CONFRONTATION.
I MEAN, WE HAVE SAID REPEATEDLY
THAT POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT IS THE
ONLY VIABLE WAY FOR THE
PALESTINIANS TO ACHIEVE THEIR
OBJECTIVES AND WE CONTINUE TO
BELIEVE THAT VIOLENCE AND
COUNTER VIOLENCE DOES NOT SERVE
THE INTEREST OF ANY PARTY.
BUT ISRAEL ACTUALLY STARTED THIS
WHOLE PROCESS THAT TRIGGERED
HAMAS TO LAUNCH ROCKETS.
HAMAS WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THE
FIRING OF ROCKETS FOLLOWING
ACTUALLY THE DISAPPEARANCE OF
THE SETTLERS AND THE CAMPAIGN
THAT ISRAEL CARRIED OUT IN THE
WEST BANK WHICH LED TO THE
DEATHS OF 12 PALESTINIANS FROM
27th.
THIS IS NOT AN ISSUE OF WHO
STARTED FIRST, WHO FIRED FIRST,
AND WHO RETALIATED.
I THINK NOW THE MOST IMPORTANT
TASK IS TO REACH A FORMULA THAT
WILL BE ACCEPTABLE TO BOTH SIDES
FOR A CEASE-FIRE.
ISRAEL'S FALSE FEELING THAT
EVERYTHING IS QUIET IN THE GAZA
STRIP, IN THE WEST BANK, IS A
VERY DELUDING FEELING, AND THEY
ARE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
OBTAIN SECURITY AND STABILITY
UNLESS THEY END THEIR CONFLICT
WITH THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: AMBASSADOR AREIKAT,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FOR MORE ON THE
ESCALATION OF THE CONFLICT IN
GAZA WE GET TWO VIEWS.
KHALIL JAHSHAN IS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE ARAB CENTER OF
WASHINGTON, A NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT SEEKS TO
FOSTER DEEPER UNDERSTANDING OF
ARAB CULTURE.
AND NATAN SACHS IS A FELLOW AT
THE SABAN CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST
POLICY AT THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION.
HE FOCUSES ON ISRAELI FOREIGN
AND DOMESTIC POLITICS AND THE
ARAB-ISRAELI CONFLICT.
WELCOME
YOU BOTH.
NATAN SACHES, WHAT CAN
ISRAEL ACCOMPLISH WITH I
GROUND INVASION THAT IT
COULDN'T ACCOMPLISH BY
SENDING HUNDREDS OF MISSILE.
>> THE PAIN OBJECTIVES TO GO
AFTER THE TUNNELS BETWEEN
GAZA STRIP AN ISRAEL.
EGYPT HAS WORKED DID-- THERE
ARE TINLS THAT GUND NEATH
THE BOARD TORE ISRAEL AN
SEVERAL ATTACKS HAVE COME
OUT OF THERE, ESPECIALLY
MOST FAMOUSLY AN ATTACK THAT
ABDUCTED THE ISRAELI SOLDIER
AND THEN THERE WAS FIVE
YEARS OF IMPRISONMENT.
TRYING TO GO AFTER THESE
TUNNELS ON THE GAZA SIDE.
>> Woodruff: HAVE THEY NOT
BEEN ABLE, HELP US
UNDERSTAND WHAT IT IF ABOUT
THESE TUNNELS, WHAT IS GOING
ON INSIDE THEM OR AROUND
THEM THAT ISRAEL CAN'T
ACCOMPLISH WITH MISSILES.
>> WELL, THERE IS A LOT YOU
CONDITION DO FROM THE AIR.
THEY KNOW A BIT ABOUT WHERE
THEY ARE.
IN FACT THIS OPERATION A
WEEK AND A HALF AGO BEGAN
REALLY WITH TARGETING A
SPECIFIC TUNNEL.
BUT JUST TODAY THEY FOUND
ANOTHER ONE.
AND THEY SUSPECT, EXPECT
THERE ARE MANY MORE ON THE
GAZA SOUND.
GOING WITH GROUND TROOPS
THEY HOPE TO UNCOVER THIS
AND STOP THEM FROM THE GAZAN
SIDE.
>> KHALIL JAHSHAN, WHAT DOES
HAMAS USE THE TUNNELS FOR?
>> BASICALLY THE TUNNELS ARE
PART AND PAR SELL OF THE
MILITARY STRATEGY OF HAMAS.
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN REALLY
USING THEM LIKE DAILY.
I THINK THERE IS A BIG
EXAGGERATION ON THE PART OF
THE ISRAELIS, AS WE JUST
HEARD NATAN HAD MENTIONED
THE INCIDENT THAT TOOK PLACE
ABOUT SIX YEARS AGO.
BUT THAT WAS SIX YEARS AGO.
WE HAVE HAD THREE WARS IN
GAZA SINCE THEN.
THE ISRAELIS KNOW WHERE
THESE TUNNELS ARE.
THEY CAN DO LIKE EGYPT DID.
THEY CAN COME IN AND BLOCK
THEM FROM THEIR SIDE, IF
THEY NEED-- THEY HAVE THAT
INTELLIGENCE.
THEY HAVE THAT SPATIAL
INTELLIGENCE FROM OUTER
SPACE THEY CAN TELL WHERE
THESE TUNNELS ARE AND HOW
DEEP THEY ARE.
nd I THINK THE ISRAELIS
BASICALLY DECIDED TO EXPAND
THEIR STRATEGY IF GAZA BY
DOING THIS INCURSION.
I DONE THINK IT'S AN
INVASION OF GAZA YET.
I THINK THE ISRAELIS ARE
USING THIS GRADUAL, IF YOU
WILL, ESCALATION STRATEGY.
AND THEY ARE USING THE
TUNNELS AS AN EXCUSE.
AND THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
ACHIEVE THEIR POLITICAL
OBJECTIVE.
>> LET ME ASK YOU TO BACK UP
WHEN YOU SAY YOU DON'T THINK
IT'S AN INVASION YET WHAT DO
YOU THINK IS GOING ON HERE.
>> WHAT GOING ON IS A
LIMITED INCURSION I THINK
INTO THE BORDER AREA BETWEEN
GAZA AND ISRAEL TO DESTROY
THESE TUNNELS.
THESE TUNNELS ARE ONLY A FEW
METERS INSIDE GAZA AND A FEW
METERS INSIDE ISRAEL.
I DON'T THINK ARE YOU GOING
TO SEE ISRAELI TROOPS YET
UNLESS THE DEFENSE OF GAZA
COLLAPSES OR UNLESS THERE IS
ADDITIONAL ESCALATION.
BUT RIGHT NOW IT SEEMS TO ME
THAT THIS INCURSION HAS A
LIMITED, IF YOU WILL,
GEOGRAPHIC OR SPATIAL ASPECT
TO IT.
YOU ARE TO THE GOING TO SEE
ISRAELI TROOPS GOING ALL THE
WAY TO RAFAH OR ALL THE WAY
TO GAZA CITY.
>> IS THAT WHAT YOU SEE
GOING ON.
>> I AM WORRIED IT CAN BE
MORE EXPENSIVE THAN THAT.
THERE IS A CHANCE THE
ISRAELIES WILL TRY TO GO
AFTER SOME OF THE LAUNCH
SIGHTS OF THE ROCKETS IN THE
NORTHERN PART OF THE GAZA
STRIP AND MAY TRY TO SEVER
THE GAZA STRIP TO PREVENT
GAZA OR HAMAS FROM
>> AND THIS IS IN HEAVILY
OCCUPIED URBAN AREA, IS THIS
RIGHT.
>> IT IS A TRAGEDY OF THIS
WAR AND WE SHOULD HAVE A LOT
OF SYMPATHY FOR THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA AND ISRAELMENT BUT
THE TRAGEDY OF THIS WAR IS
IT IS IN A VERY POPULATED
LE.A AND COMPLETE LEIGH
THE EGYPTIAN -- SHOULD HAVE
TAKEN O HOLD.
HAMAS COULD HAVE HELD ITS
FIRE AND WE WOULD NOT BE
FIGHTING TODAY AT ALL.
>> HOW DO YOU ANSWER THAT?
>> WELL, BASICALLY, ARE YOU
CORRECT IN INDICATING THE
LIMITED SPACE INVOLVED IN
THIS CONFLICT.
GAZA FOR ALL PRACTICAL
PURPOSES, THE WHOLE STRIP IS
WHAT, TWIZ THE AREA OF
WASHINGTON D.C.
AND WHEN YOU THINK OF THE
STRONGEST AIR FORCE IN THE
REGION, YOU ARE TALKING
ABOUT FIFTH OR SIXTH
STRONGEST COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD, MILITARILY, WHEN YOU
THINK OF THE ISRAELI NAVY
BOMBING FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
SO YOU ARE TALK
APPROXIMATING ABOUT A VERY,
VERY SMALL PIECE OF REAL
ESTATE.
THE BULK OF WHICH IS-- BY
THE WAY, THEY INHABITED PART
EVEN SMALLER THAN D.C.
SO IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
SEEK A MILITARY SOLUTION TO
WHAT ESSENTIALLY IS A
POLITICAL PROBLEM.
AND THAT'S WHAT ISRAEL NEEDS
TO FOCUS ON.
>> IN THE LONGER-TERM,
ABSOLUTELY.
THERE'S ONLY A POLITICAL
SOLUTION TO THIS AND THE
SIDES SHOULD GET BACK TO THE
TABLE.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT HAMAS IS
NOT INVOLVED IN THIS.
NOT INVOLVED IN THE
POLITICAL SOLUTION SWRECHLT
HAVE SYMPATHY WITH THE
PEOPLE OF GAZA, AND OF
ISRAEL AND THE WEST BANK BUT
HAMAS IS NOT THE PEOPLE OF
GAZA.
HAMAS IS THE ONE BRINGING
THIS WAR UPON THEM.
>> BUT-- HAMAS IS BEING
EXCLUDED FROM THE PROCESS.
HAMAS IS BEING EXCLUDED FROM
ANY TYPE OF NEGOTIATIONS.
IT'S BEING DESCRIBED AS A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION AND
IT IS LAID UNDER SIEGE IN
GAZA.
AND THIS IS THE REASON WHY
THE CEASE-FIRE UNFORTUNATELY
COLLAPSED.
BECAUSE HAMAS WAS EXCLUDED
FROM THE PROCESS.
THIS IS THE BIGGEST SIN
COMMITTED BY OUR SECRETARY
OF STATE AND BY
MR. NETANYAHU, BY SIMPLY
CHANNELING THIS WHOLE
PROCESS TO EGYPT WHICH IS
NOT READY TO PROCEED BECAUSE
ITS LACK OF RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE PALESTINIANS.
AND HAMAS IS OUT OF
PICTURE.
WHEN THE PROCESS STARTED IN
QATAR, THERE WAS AN EARLIER
VERSION OF THIS.
>> YOU ARE DESCRIBING A
DIVISION ON THE ARAB SIDE
HERE WHICH IS MADE FINDING A
SOLUTION MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT.
>> MUCH HARDER.
IN THE PAST YOU HAD HE
GYP-- EGYPT TO NEGOTIATE
BETWEEN THE SIDES AND TODAY
THE HE GYP MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD, EGYPTIANS AND
HAVE VERY BAD RELATIONS AND
EVEN EGYPT TODAY THEIR
DECLARATION BLAMING HAMAS
FOR THIS ROUND OF FIGHTS.
>> WHERE DO YOU SEE THIS
HEADED KHALIL JAHSHAN
BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO ASK WHY ISN'T
HAMAS PREPARED TO ACCEPT A
TRUCE.
>> IN THE LONG FUTURE,
LONG-TERM, I CAN SEE THIS
BASICALLY STAYING THIS WAY
EVERY COUPLE OF YEARS WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE ANOTHER, YOU
KNOW, CONFLICT BETWEEN
PALESTINIANS, WHETHER HAMAS
OR SOMEBODY ELSE, IN THE
FUTURE, AND THE STATE OF
ISRAEL UNLESS THERE IS IS
PEACE.
SO IN THE FUTURE LONG-TERM I
WOULD SAY PEACE IS THE
ANSWER.
WITHOUT SOLVING THE
PALESTINIAN PROBLEM, ISRAEL
WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE THESE
WARS.
SOME IN ISRAEL FEEL THIS IS
AFFORDABLE.
I DON'T THINK SO.
>> BUT IN THE MEANTIME,
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A HOT WAR
THAT HAS RESUMED.
>> THE IMMEDIATE NEED IS
SIMPLY FOR CEASE-FIRE.
AND THAT'S WHY THE EGYPTIAN
ATTEMPT WAS SO IMPORTANT IT
THAT IS WHY I DO SEE SO MUCH
IN HAMAS.
IN THE LONGER-TERM, THE ONLY
OPTION IS THE PEACE PROCESS,
GENUINE PEACE PROCESS THAT
TRIES TO REACH A TWO STATE
SOLUTION DESPITE ALL THE
DIFFICULTIES THAT WE'VE
SEEN.
IN THE IMMEDIATE SENSE WHAT
WE'RE SEEING RIGHT NOW, THE
TRAGEDY WE'RE SEEING RIGHT
NOW IS PREVENTABLE AND NEEDS
TO STOP.
>> NATAN SACHES KHALIL
JAHSHAN, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: GENERAL MOTORS FACED
ITS LATEST CONGRESSIONAL HEARING
TODAY ON IGNITION SWITCH DEFECTS
THAT WENT UN-CORRECTED FOR
YEARS.
THEY'VE BEEN LINKED TO AT LEAST
13 DEATHS, AND TODAY TURNED TO
FAILINGS OF THE AUTO MAKER'S
LEGAL STAFF.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> I DO NOT UNDERSTAND HOW THE
GENERAL COUNSEL FOR A LITIGATION
DEPARTMENT THAT HAD THIS MASSIVE
FAILURE OF RESPONSIBILITY, HOW
HE WOULD BE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE
IN THAT IMPORTANT LEADERSHIP
ROLE IN THIS COMPANY.
>> Reporter: THE TOP LAWYER AT
GENERAL MOTORS BECAME THE TOP
TARGET FOR SENATORS AT THE
HEARING.
MISSOURI DEMOCRAT CLAIRE
MCCASKILL LED THE CHARGE AGAINST
G.M.'S GENERAL COUNSEL MICHAEL
MILLIKIN.
SHE CITED G.M.'S OWN INTERNAL
REPORTS THAT THE LEGAL STAFF
FAILED TO SHARE DETAILS OF
SETTLEMENTS IN CRASHES LINKED TO
THE IGNITION PROBLEM.
BUT C.E.O. MARY BARRA DEFENDED
MILLIKIN AND INSISTED SHE'S
KEEPING HIM.
>> HE'S THE PERSON I NEED ON
THIS TEAM.
HE HAD A SYSTEM IN PLACE.
UNFORTUNATELY IN THIS INSTANCE
IT WASN'T BROUGHT TO HIS
ATTENTION, FRANKLY BY PEOPLE WHO
BROUGHT MANY OTHER ISSUES
FORWARD.
HE IS A MAN OF HIGH INTEGRITY
AND HE IS THE RIGHT PERSON.
>> Reporter: BARRA SAID THE
BLAME LIES WITH OTHER G.M.
LAWYERS WHO'VE SINCE BEEN FIRED.
MCCASKILL REJECTED THAT DEFENSE,
AND INSTEAD EVOKED THE SCANDAL
AT THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION.
>> I THINK THE FAILURE OF THIS
LEGAL DEPARTMENT IS STUNNING AND
THE NOTION-- I MEAN, YOU LOOK
AROUND GOVERNMENT, WHEN
SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPENS--
YOU KNOW WHAT?
SECRETARY SHINSEKI DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT THOSE PROBLEMS WITH
SCHEDULING.
NOBODY TOLD HIM.
HE'S GONE.
>> Reporter: ADDING TO THE FIRE,
A "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORT THAT
G.M. KEPT QUIET FOR YEARS AS
FEDERAL REGULATORS ASKED ABOUT
THE POTENTIAL CAUSES OF FATAL
CRASHES.
G.M. HAS ADMITTED KNOWING ABOUT
THE IGNITION SWITCH PROBLEM FOR
MORE THAN A DECADE BEFORE
STARTING MASS RECALLS THIS YEAR.
MILLIKIN SAID HE ONLY LEARNED
ABOUT THE IGNITION SWITCH
PROBLEMS IN FEBRUARY.
>> I WISH I HAD KNOWN ABOUT IT
EARLIER BECAUSE I KNOW I WOULD
HAVE TAKEN ACTION EARLIER IF I
DID.
WE HAD LAWYERS AT GENERAL MOTORS
WHO DID NOT DO THEIR JOBS,
DIDN'T DO WHAT WAS EXPECTED OF
THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT CONNECTICUT
DEMOCRAT RICHARD BLUMENTHAL
WARNED THERE MAY YET BE CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION.
>> IN THIS INSTANCE, THE LAWYERS
ENABLED PURPOSEFUL CONCEALMENT
AND COVER-UP, POSSIBLE CRIMINAL
ACTION THAT IS THE SUBJECT RIGHT
NOW OF AN INVESTIGATION.
>> Reporter: STILL, MILLIKIN
SAID G.M. WILL NOT MAKE PUBLIC
THE DETAILS OF PREVIOUS CRASH
SETTLEMENTS.
AND HE SAID THE COMPANY WILL NOT
WAIVE THE BANKRUPTCY SHIELD THAT
BARS LAWSUITS OVER CRASHES FROM
BEFORE JULY 2009.
>> Woodruff: NEW H.I.V.
INFECTIONS AND AIDS-RELATED
DEATHS HAVE FALLEN SO
DRAMATICALLY IN RECENT YEARS
THAT IT MAY BE POSSIBLE TO
CONTROL THE EPIDEMIC BY 2030 AND
EVENTUALLY END IT ALTOGETHER.
THAT'S THE PROJECTION IN A NEW
U.N. REPORT RELEASED IN ADVANCE
OF A MAJOR INTERNATIONAL AIDS
CONFERENCE NEXT WEEK.
OFFICIALS SAY THOSE GOALS CAN'T
BE MET THOUGH WITHOUT MORE
PREVENTION, TREATMENT AND LESS
DISCRIMINATION FOR HIGH-RISK
GROUPS.
OF PARTICULAR CONCERN, THEY SAY,
ARE COUNTRIES LIKE UGANDA WHERE
STIGMA AND H.I.V. RATES HAVE
BOTH BEEN RISING RECENTLY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR REPORT.
>> IT'S AN INCREASINGLY RARE
SIGHT IN UGANDA THESE DAYS,
AN OPENLY GAY TEENAGE BOY
SITTING IN A WAITING ROOM.
NERVOUS BECAUSE HE MAY HAVE
CONTRACTED A SEXUALLY
TRANSMITTED INFECTION, EVEN
MORE SO BECAUSE HE IS GAY
AND SEEKING HELP IN PUBLIC.
THE CLINIC SHORT FOR THE
MOST-- INITIATIVE IS ONE OF
THE FEW PUBLIC PLACES IN THE
COUNTRY WHERE GAY UGANDAS
CAN STILL COME FOR ROUTINE
CHECKUPS AND TREATMENT.
MOST CLINICS DISCONTINUED
THESE SERVICES AFTER THE
GOVERNMENT PASSED A LAW IN
FEBRUARY TARGETING GAYS AND
LESBIANS WITH SOME OF THE
HARSHEST PENALTIES IN THE
WORLD, INCLUDING UP TO LIFE
IN PRISON.
STOKED BY RELIGIOUS LEADERS
AND PASSED BY PARLIAMENT,
THE LAW TIGHTENS EXISTING
RESTRICTIONS AGAINST SAME
SEX ACTIVITIES AND BANNED
ANYTHING VIEWED AS THE
PROMOTION OF HOMOSEXUALITY.
THE PRESIDENT SIGNED AFTER A
TEAM OF UGANDA SCIENTISTS
TOLD HIM THAT THERE IS NO
GENE FOR HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT BORN
LIKE THAT.
THEY JUST LEARN AND --
>> THE MOVE INSTANTLY ISN'T
SOME OF THE NATION'S MOST
VOCAL GAY ACTIVISTS DEEP
UNDERGROUND.
TWO OF THEM WHO ASKED THAT
THEIR FACES BE OBSCURED
RECENTLY TRAVELED TO THIS
SAFE HOUSE IN CAMPALA THE
CAPITOL.
>> THEY CAME TO TALK
STRATEGY WITH BRANDT LUSWATA
A HEALTH ACTIVIST WITH THE
GROUP ICEBREAKERS UGANDA.
HE RUNS A CLINIC THAT
REMAINS OPEN TWICE A WEEK
BUT HE SAYS MOST PATIENTS
BECAME WARY ABOUT COMING
WHEN THE LAW TOOK HOLD.
>> MY CLIENTS WHO ARE LIVING
WITH HIV-- THEY ASK IS IT
SAFE FOR ME TO GO THERE.
>> WHEN A LOCAL TABLOID
PUBLISHED AKRAM NAME AND
PHOTO RECENTLY MARKING HIM
OF ONE OF WHAT IT CALLS YOU
GANDA'S TOP HOMOSEXUALS, HE
LOST HIS JOB BEFORE THE DAY
WAS OVER.
AND HIS FAMILY ALSO MADE
CLEAR THEIR POSITION.
>> THEY THROW ALL MY THINGS
OUTSIDE AND THEY SAY THIS IS
THE PROOF WHY WE ARE CHASING
YOU OUT.
YOU SHOULD GO RUN FOR YOUR
LIFE, START A NEW LIFE.
YOU NO LONGER BELONG TO US.
WE ARE REGRETTING-- YOU ARE
A SHAME.
ARE YOU A DISGRACE TO OUR
FAMILY.
>> BUT HE SAYS MANY OF HIS
FRIENDS ARE IN EVEN WORSE
SHAPE BECAUSE UNLIKE HIM
THEY'RE HIV POSITIVE AND
AFRAID THEY WILL BE OUTED BY
THEIR DOCTORS IF THEY SEEK
HELP OR TREATMENT.
>> SOME OF THEM THEY DAY
WITHIN THEIR HOUSES.
THEY JUST-- BECAUSE THEY
FEAR GOING TO THE HOSPITAL.
SOME OF THEM THEY-- SOME MAY
GET LUCKY AND THEY HEAL,
SOME THEY DIE.
>> EVEN BEFORE THE LAW
PASSED HIV RATES AMONG GAY
MEN I CAPITOL CITY
WERE ALREADY THREE TIMES
HIGHER THAN OTHER MEN.
NOW THAT DIVIDE IS EXPECTED
TO GROW.
>> BUT THOSE WHO VOTED FOR
THE LAW LIKE MEMBERS OF
PARLIAMENT DR. MICHAEL-- SAY
THAT GAYS AND LESBIANS CAN
STILL RECEIVE TREATMENT LIKE
ANYONE ELSE.
PATIENTS AREN'T REQUIRED TO
DISCLOSE THEIR SEXUALITY.
>> YOU MAY NOT BE RECOGNIZED,S
RECOGNIZED,SON-- ON THE
BASIS OF THEIR SEXUALITY.
SO THAT IS WHY THEY CAN ALSO
ACCESS -- -- ACTIVITIES,
THEY REALLY DO.
HOWEVER, I THINK WHEN WE ARE
NOW TO NOT TALKING ABOUT
STIG MARKS WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT STIGMA IN-- EXTERNAL
STIGMA, WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
INTERNAL STIGMA WHEREBY
SOMEBODY OSTRACIZES
THEMSELVES.
>> GAY RIGHTS ACTIVISTS ARE
INCENSED BY SUCH TALK AND
POINT TO A LARGE INCREASE IN
RECORDED ATTACKS ON GAYS AND
LESBIANINGS IN UGANDA, TO
LESS THAN 20 IN 2013 TO MORE
THAN 50 IN THE MONTHS AFTER
PASSING THE LAW.
HEALTH OFFICIALS WARN THE
LONGER TERM DAMAGES WILL BE
MORE SUBTLE BUT VERY REAL
RESULTING FROM THE PALPABLE
FEAR THAT IS DRIVING PEOPLE
AWAY FROM SERVICES THEY
NEED.
IT'S ALREADY HAPPENED WITH
UGANDA'S FEMALE SEX WORKERS
WHOSE ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES
MAKE THEM MORE VULNERABLE TO
ATTACK, BRIBERY AND
HARASSMENT.
THE INFECTION RATE AMONG SEX
WORKERS IS 33%, MORE THAN
FOUR TIMES THE GENERAL
POPULATIONS.
THE DIRECTOR OF
INTERNATIONAL POLICY AT THE
NONPROFIT HEALTH GAP SAYS
THAT OSTRACIZING THESE
GROUPS EVENTUALLY BACKFIRES.
>> YOU TAND -- UGANDA'S
RATES OF NEW INFECTIONS ARE
RISING.
AND WHAT EVIDENCE HAS SHOWN
IS THAT AMONG THE KEY
POPULATIONS YOU LOOK AT SEX
WORKERS OR-- YOU ACTUALLY
SEE DRASTICALLY INCREASED
PREVALENCE AND INCREASED
VULNERABILITY TO INFECTIONS.
THAT'S TO THE BECAUSE OF
SOME ABNORMALLALITY THAT IS
AKIN TO THOSE POPULATIONS.
IT'S BECAUSE OF THE IMPACT
OF HOMOTO BE.
>>, BIGOTRY, DISCRIMINATION
AND MARGINALIZATION THAT
COMES FROM DOING THAT TO A
POPULATION.
>> BUT-- SAYING THAT SOME OF
THE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
STIGMA THEY FACE FALLS ON
THE UNITED STATES.
>> THIS IS AN HISTORIC YEAR
FOR AMERICA.
>> IN 2003 THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION BEGAN
REQUIRING NONPROFITSEEKING
A SHARE OF ITS GLOBAL AIDS
BUDGET TO SIGN A PLEDGE
OPPOSING PROSTITUTION SAYING
IT IS QUOTE INHERENTLY
HARMFUL AND DEHUMANIZING AND
CAN LEAD TO TRACHBLINGING.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
CONTINUES TO DEFENDED LAW
THOUGH ITS GLOBAL AIDS
ACCORD NADER DEBORAH BURKS
TOLD THE HOUSEHOUR THAT
COMPREHENSIVE HIV PREVENTION,
TREATMENT AND CARE SERVICES
FOR SEX WOKERS REMAIN TOP
PRIORITIES FOR THE U.S.,
CRITICAL TO CREATING AN AIDS
FREE GENERATION.
BUT MANY PUBLIC HEALTH
GROUPS SAYING BEING FORCED
TO PUBLICLY OPPOSE THE
PRACTICE WOULD MAKE THEIR
JOB MUCH MORE DIFFICULT IN
PLACES WHERE DISTRUST
ALREADY RUNS HIGH.
HERE A BROTHEL IN ONE OF
KAMPALA SLUMS.
DIANA COMES HERE REGULARLY,
USUALLY TO WORK.
BUT ON THIS DAY SHE'S HERE
PASSING OUT CONDOMS AS A
PEER EDUCATOR, WITH AN
ADVOCACY GROUP FOR SEX
WORKERS.
THE GROUP'S FOUNDER AND
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, HERSELF
A SEX WORKER, HAS REFUSED TO
SIGN THE U.S. PLEDGE SAYING
IT FURTHER MARGINALIZES
THESE WOMEN, MAKES THEM
SKEPTICAL OF THE MOTIVES OF
THOSE OFFERING CRUCIAL
HEALTH INFORMATION.
>> IT IS ONE TO
>> WITH THE RESOURCES IT
DOES HAVE, SHE FOCUSES ON
PROJECTS THAT HELP SEX
WORKERS GAIN CONFIDENCE AND
STAY HEALTHY.
IF DR. REID-- IF YOU READ,
WRITE AND SPEAK ENGLISH
USING SITUATIONS RELEVANT TO
THEIR OWN EYES.
>> YOU CAN WARN YOUR FRIEND
THE POLICE WILL MAN HANDLE
YOU.
THE POLICE IS MAN HANDLING
ME AND THE POLICEMAN HANDLE
YOU, OR THEM.
>> WHEN NIGHT FALLS ON THE
INN, THE SEX WORKERS SAY
THOSE SKILLS LEAD TO MORE
DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS,
MORE USE OF CONDOMS LESS
VIOLENCE.
>> DAISY BELIEVES THAT NOT
SIGNING THE PLEDGE HAS
CAUSED THEM MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OVER THE YEARS.
>> I REMAIN WITH MY VALUE, I
WILL REMAIN FIGHTING THE
POLICE.
I WILL REMAIN FIGHTING THE
BAD LAWS, I WILL REMAIN
FIGHTING TO MAKE SURE THAT
SEX WORKERS HAVE ACCESS NO
MATTER WHAT IT TAKES.
>> MEANWHILE ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF TOWN, THE ONCE VOCAL
GAY ACTIVIST SAID HE'S JUST
ABOUT GIVEN UP HIS FIGHT.
>> LIVING HERE IS LIKE
LIVING IN A HILL.
IT IS THE --
>> NOW HE AND MANY OF HIS
FRIENDS ARE SIMPLY LOOKING
FOR A WAY OUT.
HE SAYS THAT FOR THOSE WHO
ARE GAY THIS COUNTRY OFFERS
FEW OTHER OPTIONS.
>> Ifill: IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
ABOUT LIFE IN UGANDA FOR THE
COUNTRY'S GAY ACTIVISTS OR
FEMALE SEX WORKERS, SUBMIT THEM
ON OUR WEBSITE.
OUR SOURCES FROM THIS SEGMENT
WILL ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS IN
THE DAYS AHEAD.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE OUR PHOTO ESSAY
ON EFFORTS TO BRING DOWN H.I.V.
RATES AMONG ONE OF THE WORLD'S
OTHER HIGHEST-RISK POPULATIONS
DRUG USERS ALONG THE KENYAN
COAST.
THAT'S ALL ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
>> Woodruff: THIS SATURDAY MARKS
THE 30-YEAR ANNIVERSARY OF THE
NOMINATION OF THE FIRST WOMAN
EVER TO RUN FOR VICE PRESIDENT
ON A MAJOR PARTY TICKET.
SHE WAS NEW YORK DEMOCRATIC
CONGRESSWOMAN GERALDINE FERRARO.
A DOCUMENTARY BY HER DAUGHTER,
TITLED "GERALDINE FERRARO:
PAVING THE WAY," TELLS THE STORY
OF HER MOTHER'S TRAILBLAZING
CAREER, AND THE EFFECT SHE HAD
ON AMERICAN POLITICS AND
CULTURE.
WE BEGIN WITH AN EXCERPT FROM
THAT FILM INSIDE THE DEMOCRATIC
NATIONAL CONVENTION HALL IN SAN
FRANCISCO WHERE FERRARO WAS
FORMALLY NOMINATED BY  HER
RUNNING MATE, SENATOR WALTER
MONDALE, ON JULY 19, 1984.
>> I HAVE HAD MANY PEOPLE
TELL ME IT'S THE BEST
NATIONAL CONVENTION WE'VE
EVER HAD.
PEOPLE WERE THRILLED, THE
CROWDS WERE BUILDING UP
OUTSIDE THE HALL TO BE CLOSE
TO WHAT WAS GOING ON.
>> I NOMINATE GERALDINE A
FERRARO OF NEW YORK TO BE
THE NEXT VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
>> IT WAS AS EMOTIONAL AS I
HAD EVER SEEN AT THE
CONVENTION.
THE RESPONSE, THE EMOTION.
TO TALK ABOUT IT, IT WAS SO
SPECTACULAR.
THE FLOOR OF THE CONVENTION
WAS VIRTUALLY ALL WOMEN,
WOMEN WHO HAD FOUGHT SO HARD
FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS.
OH MY GOD T WAS SUCH A
WONDERFUL MOMENT.
>>  'S STANDING UP THERE ALL
IN WHITE, LOOKING LIKE THIS
TINY LITTLE FIGURE BUT
LOOKING BEAUTIFUL AND
LOOKING FEMALE.
I WAS --
>> I LOOKED DOWN AND SO MANY
OF THEM WERE CRYING.
I HAD NEVER SEEN-- I JUST
DON'T WANT TO MAKE A
MISTAKE.
I HAVE TO TALK SLOWLY.
I NEVER USED PROMPTERS
BEFORE.
I USUALLY TOOK MY SPEECH
BECAUSE I WANT TO MAKE SURE
IF THE PROMPTERS WENT OUT I
COULD LOOK DOWN AND READ IT,
AND TELL MY DAUGHTER
WHATEVER YOU DO DON'T CRY
BECAUSE WE CAN'T.
WOMEN CAN'T CRY OVER THINGS.
WE'RE TOO EMOTIONAL, TOUGH
JOB, YOU HAVE TO BE TOUGH TO
BE VICE PRESIDENT.
I SAID-- AND SO I LOOKED
DOWN AND I SAID MY NAME IS
GERALDINE FERRARO.
>> MY NAME IS GERALDINE
FERRARO--
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> AND THE PLACE WENT CRAZY.
>> LADIES AND GENTLEMEN OF
THE CONVENTION--
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> I GOT TWO WORDS OUT OF MY
MOUTH AND THEY WOULD ALLO
ALLOW-- APPLAUD.
IT WAS ALMOST LIKE A DANCE
BETWEEN ME AND THESE PEOPLE.
>> I STAND BEFORE YOU TO
PROCLAIM TONIGHT AMERICA IS
A LAND WHERE DREAMS CAN COME
TRUE FOR ALL OF US.
>> Woodruff: AND FERRARO'S
DAUGHTER, FILMMAKER DONNA
ZACCARO, JOINS US NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU WERE 21 YEARS OLD WHEN
YOUR MOTHER ACCEPTED THE
DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION FOR
VICE PRESIDENT.
YOU WERE THERE.
WHAT WAS THAT NIGHT LIKE?
>> WELL, OBVIOUSLY ITS WITH
A NIGHT THAT NONE OF US HAD
EXPERIENCED BEFORE BUT I
THINK PEOPLE WHO WERE THERE
AND YOU HEARD LEADER PELOSI
TALKING ABOUT HOW, AND KOCHI
ROBERTSES SAID PEOPLE WHO IT
THERE WERE THERE KNEW IT WAS
NOT LIKE ANYTHING THAT IT
EVER BEEN EXPERIENCED
BEFORE.
>> I ACTUALLY WAS THERE TOO.
IT WAS A SPECIAL MOMENT FOR
WOMEN NO MATTER WHO YOU WERE,
WHAT PARTY, YOU WERE IN.
SO IT WAS 30 YEARS AGO DONNA,
YOUR MOTHER PASSED AWAY
THREE YEARS AGO.
WHY DID YOU WANT TO MAKE
THIS FILM?
>> YOU KNOW, I WANTED TO
BOTH CLARIFY AND PER SERVE
HER LEGACY BUT I ALSO WANTED
TO INTRODUCE HER AND THIS
PART OF WOMEN'S HISTORY TO
YOUNGER GENERATIONS TODAY.
BECAUSE WE KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED THEN.
WE MIGHT NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT
HER IMPACT WAS OR THE IMPACT
OF THE CANDIDACY THAT
FRANKLY DIDN'T WIN HAD, BUT
I THINK YOUNGER PEOPLE TODAY
DON'T HAVE ANY IDEA WHAT IT
WAS LIKE BEFORE.
AND SO I REALLY DO WANT IT
TO BE USED AS AN EDUCATIONAL
TOOL SO GENERATIONS TO COME
CAN KNOW.
>> DO YOU THINK PEOPLE DON'T
KNOW.
>> I THINK ANYONE OVER 35
CERTAINLY HAS NO AWARE OF
IT.
ANYONE-- SORRY, THE REVERSE
OF THAT.
ANYONE WHO IS UNDER 35
DOESN'T KNOWMENT PEOPLE OVER
35 DO REMEMBER BUT AGAIN
THEY MIGHT NOT REMEMBER MUCH
OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT SHE
WAS NOMINATED.
THEY MIGHT NOT REMEMBER WHAT
IT WAS LIKE BEFORE THERE WAS
A WOMAN WHO HAD RUN AN SHOWN
THAT YOU COULD BE A CREDIBLE
CANDIDATE.
>> IN TELLING THIS STORY OF
THAT CAMPAIGN YOU TELL THE
HIGHLIGHTS BUT ALSO THE
TOUGH MOMENTS, THE TIME WHEN
YOUR FAMILY'S FINANCES WERE
UNDER ENORMOUS SCRUTINY.
YOUR FATHER FOR A TIME DID
NOT WANT TO REVEAL HIS TAX
RETURNS.
THAT HAD TO BE A REALLY
DIFFICULT TIME FOR YOUR
MOTHER AND YOUR WHOLE
FAMILY.
>> YES, I THOUGHT WAS REALLY
IMPORTANT, I HAVE BEEN A
JOURNALIST MY CAREER AS WELL,
AND I ALSO THOUGHT IT WAS
VERY IMPORTANT TO SHOW THE
SCRUTINY AND ATTACKS BECAUSE
FIRST OF ALL THE CERTAINLY
LINING IN HOW SHE HANDLED
THOSE DIFFICULT SITUATIONS
AND ATTACKS AND THE
CONTROVERSIES, IT SHOWED SHE
HAD THE GRIT AND LEADERSHIP
TO BE A LEADER.
BUT ALSO I THOUGHT THAT
PEOPLE HAD TO SEE WHAT THE
FIRST, WHAT THE PIONEER WENT
THROUGH.
AND WHAT THAT WAS LIKE AND
YET TO ANOTHER 24 YEARS
BEFORE ANOTHER WOMAN WAS
NOMINATED ON A MAJOR PARTY
TICKET.
THAT WAS 2008 WHEN SARAH
PALIN WAS NOMINATED, VICE
PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
WITH JOHN McCAIN.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT THE
LEGACY OF WHAT YOUR MOTHER
CANDIDACY MEANT DO YOU
THINK?
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT IT SAYS
ANYTHING ABOUT THE LEGACY OF
HER CANDIDACY BECAUSE I
THINK WAS A VERY DIFFERENT
CHOICE, I THINK IN McCAIN'S
CASE IT WAS A HAIL MARY PASS
AND POLITICAL EXPEDIENCY.
HE WASN'T CONSIDERING ANY
WOMEN OR ANY MINORITIES OR
ANYTHING ELSE WHEN HE WAS
LOOKING FOR A VICE PRESIDENT
SELECTION.
AND IT WAS VERY DIFFERENT,
WITH MONDALE HE HAD OPENED
THE WHOLE PROCESS VERY
PUBLICLY AND DELIBERATELY
BECAUSE HE WANTED TO INCLUDE
GROUPS THAT HAD BEEN
EXCLUDED BEFORE INTO
CONSIDERATION FOR THE VICE
PRESIDENTIAL SPOT.
>> BUT IN TERMS OF WOMEN AND
POLITICS THERE ARE CERTAINLY
MORE WOMEN SERVING IN THE
CONGRESS, 20% OF THE
CONGRESS.
IT'S NOT PARITY BUT WOMEN
HAVE COME A LONG WAY AND YET
THERE'S STILL SO MUCH FOCUS
WHEN WOMEN DO RUN.
>> YES.
YOU KNOW, IT'S UNFORTUNATE
THAT WE HAVEN'T HAD A WOMAN
VICE PRESIDENT OR PRESIDENT
AND HOPEFULLY WE WILL IN THE
NEXT ELECTION CYCLE BUT YOU
KNOW, I THINK TRADITIONALLY
AS YOU KNOW THE VICE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE AND THE
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE COME
FROM ARE EITHER THE
GOVERNOR'S MANSION OR THE
SENATE.
AND FORTUNATELY WE HAVE MORE
PEOPLE NOW, MORE WOMEN IN
THOSE ROLES.
WE'VE GOT 20 IN THE SENATE
NOW, 20 WOMEN IN THE SENATE
AND WHAT SIX GOVERNORS WHO
ARE WOMEN, MAYBE IT'S FIVE.
BUT SO THOSE ARE THE
TRADITIONAL PLACES.
UNTIL THERE ARE MORE THAN
THAT, THAT IS WHERE PEOPLE
ARE CHOSEN FROM.
SO WE ARE GETTING PEOPLE IN
THE PIPELINE AND WE HAVE
MORE SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
THAT ARE WOMEN.
WE'VE GOT THREE SECRETARIES
OF STATE THAT WERE WOMEN.
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK SHOULD
BE ONE OF THE MAIN TAKEAWAYS
FOR YOUNGER WOMEN THINKING
ABOUT GOING INTO POLITICS.
YOUR MOTHER WENT THROUGH AN
INCREDIBLE SCRUTINY AS A
CANDIDATE.
IT MAY HAVE GOTTEN A LITTLE
BETTER SINCE THEN BUT IT'S
STILL DIFFERENT ISN'T IT,
FOR WOMEN.
>> I THINK IT'S STILL TOUGH.
AND FOR WOMEN PARTICULARLY
WOMEN WHO ARE MANAGING
HOUSEHOLDS AND HAVE
FAMILIES.
YOU KNOW, I THINK ONE OF THE
LESSONS IN THE FILM AS WELL
IS JUST HOW IMPORTANT MY
FATHER, SUPPORT OF MY MOTH
OTHER WAS DURING THAT
CAMPAIGN AND ACTUALLY
THROUGHOUT HER CAREER.
YOU KNOW, MY MOTHER ALWAYSID YOU
WANT TO BE.
DO WHATEVER YOU WANT TO DO
WITH EDUCATION W HARD WORK.
BUT YOU ALSO NEED TO HAVE
HELP.
IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE YOUR
GOALS.
AND SO YOU DO NEED EITHER A
SUPPORTIVE PARTNER OR SOME
MEANS OF GETTING HELP IN
ORDER TO DO WHAT YOU WANT TO
DO.
>> DONNA ZACCARA THE
DAUGHTER OF GERALDINE
FERRARO, REMEMBERING HER
MOTHER.
AN HISTORIC CAMPAIGN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> GERALDINE FERRARO PAVING
THE WAY IS AVAILABLE ON SHOW
TIME THROUGH THE END OF
AUGUST
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A MALAYSIA AIRLINES PLANE WAS
SHOT DOWN OVER EASTERN UKRAINE
WITH 295 PASSENGERS AND CREW ON
BOARD.
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT AND
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS BLAMED EACH
OTHER.
ISRAEL LAUNCHED A GROUND
OFFENSIVE INTO GAZA AFTER A
BRIEF, HUMANITARIAN CEASE-FIRE
ENDED.
ISRAELI OFFICIALS SAID THE
OPERATION WOULD BE "OPEN-ENDED."
AND MICROSOFT ANNOUNCED IT'S
CUTTING 18,000 JOBS, 14% OF ITS
WORK FORCE.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, A MISSOURI
BALLOT MEASURE WOULD PROTECT
FARMERS FROM CAMPAIGNS BY ANIMAL
WELFARE ACTIVISTS, BUT OPPONENTS
SAY THE REAL WINNER MAY BE BIG
CORPORATIONS.
WE HAVE A BREAKDOWN FROM OUR
PARTNERS AT SAINT LOUIS PUBLIC
RADIO, ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE TRAVEL TO
WISCONSIN TO EXPLORE AMERICA'S
DEEP POLITICAL POLARIZATION.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.